HTML Summary
This tutorial has taught you how to use HTML to create your own web site.

HTML is the universal markup language for the Web. HTML lets you format text, add graphics, create links, input forms, frames and tables, etc., and save it all in a text file that any browser can read and display.

For more information on HTML, please take a look at our HTML examples and our HTML reference.

You can also test your HTML skills with HTML Exercises and HTML Quizzes.

Now You Know HTML, What's Next?
Learn CSS
CSS lets you style your HTML pages.

CSS gives you total control of the layout, without messing up the document content.

To learn more about CSS, please visit our CSS tutorial.

Learn JavaScript
JavaScript makes your website more dynamic. A dynamic website can react to events and allow user interaction.

JavaScript is the most popular scripting language on the internet and it works with all major browsers.

If you want to learn more about JavaScript, please visit our JavaScript tutorial.

Publishing Your Website
To make your website available to the world, you must publish it.

For this, you have two options:

Use an Internet Service Provider
Host your own website
Using an Internet Service Provider
An Internet service provider (ISP) is a company that provides services for accessing and using the Internet.

Internet services typically provided by ISPs include Internet access, Internet transit, domain name registration, web hosting, Usenet service, and colocation.

Using an Internet Service Provider (ISP) is the most common option.

Advantages:
Connection Speed - ISPs have very fast connections to the internet.
Powerful Hardware - ISPs have powerful web servers that can be shared by several clients. You can also expect an effective load balancing and necessary backup servers
Security and Stability - ISPs are specialists on web hosting. Expect more than 99% up time, the latest software patches, and the best virus protection
Things to Consider:
24-hour support - The ISP should offer 24-hours support. Toll-free phone could also be vital
Daily Backup - The ISP must run a daily backup routine
Traffic Volume - Check the ISP's traffic volume restrictions (do not end up paying a fortune for unexpected high traffic)
Bandwidth or Content Restrictions - Check the ISP's bandwidth and content restrictions (Is it possible to publish pictures, video, or sound?)
E-mail Capabilities - Make sure the ISP supports the e-mail capabilities you need
Database Access - Make sure the ISP supports the database access you need
Hosting Your Own Website
Hosting your own website, on your own server, is also an option.

Things to Consider:
Hardware Expenses - To run a "real" web site, you must buy powerful server hardware (a low cost PC will not do the job). You will also need a permanent (24/7) high-speed connection
Software Expenses - Server-licenses are often higher than client-licenses. Server-licenses also might have limits on number of users
Labor Expenses - Don't expect low labor expenses. You have to install your own hardware and software. You also have to deal with bugs and viruses, and keep your server constantly running
